# Client-Server-Development
# How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable and adaptable?
Writing programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable is an important part of software development. A common way to achieve this is to provide detailed comments that describe the code blocks such as a method in the code block. Also, using correct variable names is another task when writing problems that will assist you or another developer with the ability to understand what that variable does just by the name or at least an idea of what it can do. Another benefit when writing problems to help with maintainability or adaptability is to create code that can be added to create other operations such as adding a method to the code or program or creating better exceptions to already developed methods.
In the created Python CRUD module annotates were used to give a title of what the Python module will do such as “CRUD operations for Animal collection in MongoDB”. Then inside the Python modules class a few comments were created to give the reader or developer an idea of what is happening and an outline of what the variables are doing in the module. Each CRUD method has comments to allow a reader/developer to understand what the code is doing in the module. This Python CRUD module can be used for other projects with different database names and collections by simply changing database variables such as usernames, passwords, database names, and collections. One major goal for creating the Python CRUD module was to have the ability to use it for other tasks such databases, collections or other Python work that will use the CRUD operations.     
# How do you approach a probelm as a computer scientist?
The best way for me to approach a problem as a computer scientist is to completely understand the requirements of the task at hand. In general, creating some check off sheets and to do assist me in understanding the requirements and the problem at hand. For example, if I do not understand a topic or a task for the problem then I can put it in a to do list. After the check off list I can determine the order, I want and need to accomplish the tasks (sometime tasks are always being added). As a computer scientist having current documentation on MongoDB was important because then I could understand what I could do with the data. 
In the Animal Shelter Application Dashboard, I choose to use a main check list sheet which housed the main requirements for the Application. The requirements can consist of client needs and wants for the application and other areas of applications such as security or licenses. Then because some parts of the application needed innovative interactions and was up to the developer to create these. I decided to implement different options and with notes about each option and that made it easier to understand and decide about which options the client would like to have. Options include sorting documents, drop down menus, in line filter searches for specific animals, animals name or maybe a dog’s breed. My approach differed in this approach because I was able to create an option for the data table which consisted of the documents from the MongoDB database and see changes right way. Seeing the changes right away allowed me to keep current notes on the options and test the options to make sure they are relative and easy for the client to use or train their staff members to use.   
# What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter?
A computer scientist might analyze data for a company, database or other organizations that have data that can be used to find trends, create searches, solve problems, and write problems. Computer scientists can do research for a company or an organization that could consist of researching current data, new technologies, application design, search engines and can solve many other technical problems. One main goal for computer scientists is to solve problems and to create a better online experience for all end users that they support. The work completed for the Animal Shelter Dashboard Application will help me understand client requirements. The work on the Dashboard Application allowed me to find user-friendly options that the clients would not only appreciate but assist them in completing their job functions in their search for rescue dogs.  
